Construction of tall buildings has recently gone through an exponential growth in major
cities, creating new challenges in earthquake engineering and design. For instance,
existing analytical procedures for evaluating seismic lateral earth pressures on
basement walls that are connected to these buildings typically ignore the inertia and
dynamic properties of the superstructure. The inertial forces from a tall superstructure
may cause additional displacements and rotations in its basement that would affect the
distribution and magnitude of seismic lateral earth pressures. These additional soil-
basement-structure interaction (SBSI) effects are currently not well understood. Hence,
the applicability and reliability of existing procedures to the basements of tall buildings
remains questionable. In this paper, we use an experimental-numerical approach to
provide insight on how the lateral resisting system of tall superstructures may impact
the magnitude and distribution of seismic earth pressures on basement walls buried in
dry sand and gravel. Numerical simulations are first validated in 3D using a prior
centrifuge experiment that included a simplified model of a 42-story, highrise structure
in medium-dense, dry sand. Then, the numerical tool is used to perform 156, 2D,
nonlinear simulations of more realistic buildings and basements, ground motion
characteristics, as well as both sandy and gravely soil profiles. Nonlinear numerical
simulations are shown to successfully capture the building’s inertial and kinematic
seismic interactions with the basement and an adjacent underground structure. The
subsequent numerical sensitivity study showed that inertial forces from a tall
superstructure increase total lateral earth pressures on the basement walls. This
increase is particularly notable in the top two-thirds of the basement wall and can be
approximated by a trapezoidal distribution. The superstructure’s inertia amplifies the
seismic earth pressure increments at shallow depths, with an approximately inverted
triangular shape. These effects and reliability of existing analytical procedures are
shown to be highly sensitive to the building’s modal frequencies in relation to the
frequency content of the input motion as well as the stiffness of the structure-basement
system in relation to the underlying soil. The results point to the importance of
considering the building’s dynamic properties and inertia in evaluation of seismic earth
pressures on basement walls, in order to avoid unsafe estimations or the need for
overdesign.